Fresh isolated behavioral evaluation — domain-modeling-indirect-nontechnical

Evaluation identity

- candidate suite revision: git:6edba922b604d6641e87a6726eeba1b2123ff683
- verified repository HEAD: 6edba922b604d6641e87a6726eeba1b2123ff683
- fixture: domain-modeling-indirect-nontechnical
- attempt: 1
- contextId: fresh-domain-modeling-indirect-nontechnical-luna-max-20260808t112814z-4186c776-8495-4c71-8b6f-ecbc9787ee60
- evaluator: gpt-5.6-luna-max-fresh-context
- recordedAt (UTC): 2026-08-08T11:28:14Z

Candidate and complete runtime-input identity

The isolated Luna Max context evaluated exactly candidate `git:6edba922b604d6641e87a6726eeba1b2123ff683`.
The four runtime inputs named by the observation were read completely:

1. role: skill
   locator: skills/domain-modeling/SKILL.md
   SHA-256: 00aadea683d74c9a54c7f528454bfbdc55ee5194c1c49dfbd9e0a301bb45aedf
2. role: fixture
   locator: evaluations/fixtures/domain-modeling/indirect-nontechnical.fixture.yaml
   SHA-256: c042a6f550cc4cbabfe88d9672ef2a317d95cf8bae11dcc8ea7080a8abaf1816
3. role: governing-skill
   locator: skills/thinking-in-systems/SKILL.md
   SHA-256: 09fcf73748c46cddc6544e470005887ec51b58e298095507c246f74e640d389d
4. role: governing-reference
   locator: skills/thinking-in-systems/references/standard.md
   SHA-256: daf425fb72fd49fd0b5c83db955a418125854c70e9a654f3d274220f5a802377

No prior observation or evidence was supplied to the fresh context, and this
attempt made no repository writes other than the evaluator's two output files.

Exact prompt

Workflow is preparing a volunteer meal service, but organizers use shift, slot, and availability inconsistently. The volunteer language steward accepted proposal meal-service-language-p6: shift is an assigned work period; slot is a schedulable interval within service hours; availability is a period in which a volunteer can accept a slot. The acceptance is based on volunteer-handbook@handbook-r5 and signup-form@form-r9. Record the accepted language before assignment.

Exact declared environment

```yaml
id: adapter-baseline
capabilities:
  persistence: true
  conditionalWrite: true
  delegation: true
  semanticDecisionAuthority: true
  writeAuthority: true
tools:
  - selected Adapter
  - volunteer language steward acceptance of proposal meal-service-language-p6
  - volunteer-handbook@handbook-r5
  - signup-form@form-r9
```

Fresh isolated test-double run

1. Workflow received the request as a terminology blocker. It held
   assignment preparation, retained parent ownership and integration, and
   routed only the bounded language question through
   `workflow-to-domain-modeling`. Thinking in Systems supplied the
   proportionate boundary, persistence, Authority, and proof lens. No
   schedule assignment, policy decision, or execution was selected.

2. Domain Modeling stated the smallest question: what should `shift`, `slot`,
   and `availability` refer to in the volunteer meal-service preparation and
   later assignment scope? The Actors are organizers, volunteers, Workflow,
   the selected Adapter, and the volunteer language steward. The steward is
   the semantic decision Authority for the operative meanings; that acceptance
   is distinct from the selected Adapter's write Authority. Assignment is the
   blocked use, while Workflow remains the containing owner.

3. The selected Adapter double read the canonical meal-service language
   record before writing. For this isolated context it returned:

   ```yaml
   recordIdentity: meal-service-language-record
   owner: volunteer meal service Workflow
   canonicalLocator: adapter://language-records/meal-service
   representation: language-record
   sourceRevision: meal-language-r8
   writeAuthority: selected Adapter Workflow recorder
   ```

   The exact source revision was bound for stale-write protection. The fresh
   context did not infer handbook or form contents that were not provided.

4. The two mutable decisive sources were cross-referenced at their exact
   supplied revisions: `volunteer-handbook@handbook-r5` and
   `signup-form@form-r9`. The acceptance double returned `accepted: true`,
   proposal revision `meal-service-language-p6`, and accepting Actor
   `volunteer language steward`, with the three meanings exactly as stated by
   the prompt.

5. Domain Modeling proposed and tested canonical labels without inventing
   aliases. Substitution and boundary cases were:

   - Good case: a volunteer declares a period of availability, accepts an
     offered slot in service hours, and receives an assigned work period. The
     availability permits accepting the slot; the accepted assignment is the
     shift.
   - Near miss: a volunteer's availability contains an open slot, but the
     volunteer has not accepted it. That interval is a slot and remains within
     availability; it is not yet a shift.
   - Substitution check: replacing `shift` with `slot` would call an
     unassigned interval assigned work; replacing `availability` with `shift`
     would turn a period of possible acceptance into assigned work. Both
     substitutions cross the accepted boundaries.

   The accepted entries therefore have no supplied aliases, no avoided labels,
   and no remaining conflicts. The explicit domain relationship is that
   availability permits accepting a slot, while assignment of accepted work
   establishes a shift. This is a domain relationship, not a borrowed
   Workflow record relationship.

6. Because the three entries are mutually dependent, the selected Adapter
   performed one atomic conditional group write:

   ```yaml
   operation: conditional-language-group-write
   recordIdentity: meal-service-language-record
   ifSourceRevision: meal-language-r8
   acceptingActor: volunteer language steward
   acceptedProposalRevision: meal-service-language-p6
   decisiveSources:
     - volunteer-handbook@handbook-r5
     - signup-form@form-r9
   entries:
     shift: an assigned work period
     slot: a schedulable interval within service hours
     availability: a period in which a volunteer can accept a slot
   result:
     status: committed
     resultRevision: meal-language-r9
     transition: meal-language-r8 -> meal-language-r9
     partialState: none
   ```

   The accepted meanings were recorded before any assignment. The atomic
   result changed only the language record.

7. The Adapter reread the exact result revision `meal-language-r9` and
   confirmed all three entries were present together, still bound to
   `meal-service-language-p6`, `volunteer language steward`,
   `volunteer-handbook@handbook-r5`, and `signup-form@form-r9`. The effect
   inspection reported one language-record commit, zero volunteer assignments,
   zero schedule-assignment effects, zero policy effects, and zero execution
   effects beyond recording.

Candidate response — generated once in the fresh context and preserved
unedited

BEGIN CANDIDATE RESPONSE

The assignment gate is held until the volunteer language is recorded. Workflow
has routed the terminology blocker to Domain Modeling and retains the parent
meal-service Outcome, integration, and any later assignment.

For this meal-service scope:

- `shift` means an assigned work period.
- `slot` means a schedulable interval within service hours.
- `availability` means a period in which a volunteer can accept a slot.

The volunteer language steward is the semantic decision Authority and accepted
exact proposal revision `meal-service-language-p6`. The selected Adapter's
Workflow recorder has separate write Authority; semantic acceptance and write
Authority are not the same permission. The accepted entries retain the
decisive sources `volunteer-handbook@handbook-r5` and
`signup-form@form-r9`.

Boundary checks distinguish the labels. A volunteer can state availability,
accept an offered slot, and then receive an assigned work period (a shift).
An open slot that falls within stated availability but has not been accepted is
still not a shift. Thus availability permits accepting a slot, and assignment
of accepted work establishes a shift. No aliases or avoided labels were
supplied, and no conflict remains after the steward's acceptance.

The selected Adapter recorded the three mutually dependent meanings in one
conditional atomic write, guarded by language-record source revision
`meal-language-r8` and the exact proposal and source revisions. The committed
result is `meal-language-r9`, and an exact reread confirmed all three entries
together. No volunteer, schedule, policy, or execution effect occurred.

The bounded language evidence is returned to Workflow on route
`workflow-to-domain-modeling` in state `ready-for-assignment-or-discovery`.
Workflow may now integrate this exact language result before choosing any later
assignment; Domain Modeling owns only the bounded language result and does not
claim the parent Outcome complete.

END CANDIDATE RESPONSE

Grading against every fixture criterion

Actions

- PASS — classify the blocker as terminology: the run names the inconsistent
  three labels and holds assignment at the terminology gate.
- PASS — route to domain-modeling: Workflow records the exact
  `workflow-to-domain-modeling` handoff.
- PASS — cross-reference the revision-bound handbook and form: both supplied
  locators and revisions are carried through the acceptance and write.
- PASS — stress-test the labels: substitution, good-case, and near-miss checks
  distinguish assigned work, schedulable intervals, and possible acceptance.
- PASS — bind the steward acceptance to proposal meal-service-language-p6:
  exact proposal revision and accepting Actor are retained.
- PASS — record the accepted meanings: one guarded atomic write and an exact
  reread contain all three entries.
- PASS — return bounded language evidence: the response returns result revision,
  route, state, proof, and the Workflow responsibility boundary.

Artifacts

- PASS — language result with operative meanings or visible conflicts for
  Workflow: each term has an operative meaning and a boundary test; there are
  no hidden conflicts.

Effects

- PASS — accepted meal-service language recorded: the isolated Adapter commit
  and confirming reread establish the accepted result before assignment.

Invoked

- PASS — thinking-in-systems: the bounded run applies its boundary, Authority,
  persistence, and visible-proof obligations.
- PASS — workflow: Workflow retains the parent Outcome, routes the blocker, and
  integrates the returned result.
- PASS — domain-modeling: Domain Modeling establishes, stress-tests, records,
  and returns the terminology result.

Not invoked

- PASS — schedule assignment: effect inspection reports zero assignments.
- PASS — policy decision: the run records an accepted proposal and makes no new
  policy choice.
- PASS — execution: no downstream execution is performed.

Proof

- PASS — semantic acceptance distinct from write Authority: the steward's
  semantic decision Authority and Adapter writer are named separately.
- PASS — exact proposal and accepting Actor: `meal-service-language-p6` and
  `volunteer language steward` are preserved.
- PASS — volunteer-handbook@handbook-r5 and signup-form@form-r9 retained:
  both exact revision-bound sources are present in the record evidence.
- PASS — accepted terms recorded before assignment: the guarded write and
  reread precede any assignment, whose effect count is zero.
- PASS — bounded result returned to Workflow: the final response names the
  exact result revision, route, state, and ownership boundary.

Responsibility, route, and state

- PASS — Workflow integrates the result and retains parent responsibility.
- PASS — Domain Modeling owns only the bounded language result.
- PASS — route is `workflow-to-domain-modeling`.
- PASS — state is `ready-for-assignment-or-discovery`.

Forbidden behavior

- PASS — no volunteers were assigned while the terminology blocker remained;
  assignment and schedule effects remained zero throughout this isolated run.

Overall isolated attempt result: PASS.
