Fresh-context behavioral evaluation — domain-modeling-supplemental-required-unavailable
Attempt: 1
Context ID: fresh-domain-modeling-supplemental-required-unavailable-20260809t110549z-luna-max-87eb4d0b-a7ba-487e-b87c-37cf8706ffbc
Evaluator: gpt-5.6-luna-max-fresh-context
Recorded at (UTC): 2026-08-09T11:05:49Z
Run mode: one-shot, isolated fresh context. The prior observation and transcript
were not runtime inputs; this candidate response was generated once and retained
without editing.

Candidate and exact runtime-input locator/hash bindings

- Evaluation candidate / suite revision: git:916aa0e0d5889cf30401823c7d502871da5f0513
- role: skill
  - locator: skills/domain-modeling/SKILL.md
  - SHA-256: 00aadea683d74c9a54c7f528454bfbdc55ee5194c1c49dfbd9e0a301bb45aedf
- role: fixture
  - locator: evaluations/fixtures/domain-modeling/supplemental-required-unavailable.fixture.yaml
  - SHA-256: ab5d1eed74ae274e123bd6113edef6857c81b472152b3b4d2fbc88b51f387bec
- role: governing-skill
  - locator: skills/thinking-in-systems/SKILL.md
  - SHA-256: 09fcf73748c46cddc6544e470005887ec51b58e298095507c246f74e640d389d
- role: governing-reference
  - locator: skills/thinking-in-systems/references/standard.md
  - SHA-256: daf425fb72fd49fd0b5c83db955a418125854c70e9a654f3d274220f5a802377

The fixture, Domain Modeling skill, Thinking in Systems skill, and complete
Thinking in Systems standard were read before the one-shot run. The selected
Adapter's existing language-record shape was inspected only through the
fixture-controlled read below; no language-record template was needed because
the required capability gap prevents acceptance and persistence.

Exact prompt

A care rota uses primary contact and emergency contact inconsistently in care-policy@policy-r8 and contact-register@register-r11. A terminology-evidence Supplemental skill is configured as required but is unavailable. Preserve the candidates and exact resumption action.

Exact fixture environment

id: required-supplemental-unavailable
capabilities:
  persistence: true
  conditionalWrite: true
  semanticDecisionAuthority: true
  writeAuthority: true
  supplementalSkills: false
tools:
  - selected Adapter
  - care-policy@policy-r8
  - contact-register@register-r11

Fresh isolated events and observations

1. Systems framing and responsibility boundary

The request was treated as one System interaction with a durable language
result and a cross-session recovery need. The smallest terminology question is
whether “primary contact” and “emergency contact” denote coordination roles,
urgency context, contact order, or a defined combination in the care-rota
scope. The care-policy steward has semantic decision Authority; the care-record
maintainer has separate write Authority. Rota users, the policy steward, and
the record maintainer are affected Actors. Workflow retains the parent
care-rota Outcome; Domain Modeling owns only this bounded terminology result
and its evidence integration.

2. Selected Adapter language-context read

Input: scope = care-rota contact terminology.

Result:

- record identity: care-rota-contact-language
- owner: care-policy steward
- canonical locator: selected-adapter://care-rota/contact-language
- source revision / write guard: care-rota-language-r6
- current state: conflicted
- current labels: primary contact; emergency contact
- semantic decision Authority: care-policy steward
- write Authority: care-record maintainer
- conditional write guard: available

No Adapter write or result revision occurred. This read bound the language
record and separated semantic decision Authority from permission to write it.

3. Mutable source reads

care-policy@policy-r8:

- “Primary contact” is named for routine care coordination.
- “Emergency contact” is named for an urgent welfare concern.
- The escalation instruction says to try the primary contact first when
  reachable.
- This is authoritative policy source material, not acceptance of a proposal.

contact-register@register-r11:

- Separate primary-contact and emergency-contact fields are present.
- One Actor may occupy both fields.
- Field help describes primary as the first person normally called but does not
  define the emergency field's boundary.
- This is contact data source material, not acceptance of a proposal.

The exact mutable bindings care-policy@policy-r8 and
contact-register@register-r11 were preserved in every candidate. The policy
source supports a role/urgency distinction but also shows that urgency does
not by itself determine call order; the register supports a first-call
interpretation without defining emergency as a fallback.

4. Required terminology-evidence Extension-point preflight

Input supplied to the configured Supplemental seam:

- status: required
- question: do the labels encode coordination role, urgency context, contact
  order, or a combination?
- scope: care-rota contact terminology
- candidates and source bindings: care-policy@policy-r8 and
  contact-register@register-r11

Result:

- availability: unavailable
- reason: supplementalSkills capability is false
- invoked: false
- finding: none
- evidence revision: none

Because the Supplemental is required, this is a visible completion-blocking
capability gap. No substitute judgment was attributed to the unavailable
skill.

5. Preserved candidate meanings

- Candidate A — responsibility/urgency: primary contact names routine
  care-coordination responsibility, while emergency contact names the person
  or channel for an urgent welfare concern. care-policy@policy-r8 supports the
  distinction, but “try primary first when reachable” means urgency alone does
  not settle call order.
- Candidate B — call order: primary contact means the first person normally
  called, with emergency contact a later or fallback contact.
  contact-register@register-r11 supports the first-call part but does not
  define emergency as fallback and permits one Actor in both fields.
- Candidate C — two dimensions: the fields encode coordination roles while a
  separate circumstance rule determines contact order. Both exact sources make
  this plausible, but neither supplies a boundary that makes routine, urgent,
  and overlapping cases converge for two competent readers.

All three are unresolved, source-bound candidates, not an accepted meaning.

6. Pause and effect audit

The result entered the paused state because no safe useful action remained
without the required source-bound Supplemental evidence. No canonical label,
proposal revision, semantic acceptance, Adapter write, or durable result
revision was created. Conditional-write calls: 0. Other persistent effects: 0.
The required capability gap, preserved source revisions, blocked Outcome, and
exact recovery route remain visible. Thinking in Systems governed capability
gap, Authority, paused, proof, and recovery behavior; Workflow retained parent
responsibility; Domain Modeling retained the blocked language result.

----- BEGIN RAW CANDIDATE RESPONSE -----

The care-rota terminology result is paused. The smallest question is whether
“primary contact” and “emergency contact” describe coordination responsibility,
urgency context, contact order, or a defined combination, and the boundary must
let two competent rota users act alike without silently changing escalation
behavior.

The applicable language record is care-rota-contact-language at
selected-adapter://care-rota/contact-language, guarded by source revision
care-rota-language-r6. The exact mutable source bindings are
care-policy@policy-r8 and contact-register@register-r11. They are preserved
evidence, not semantic acceptance. The care-policy steward holds semantic
decision Authority; the care-record maintainer holds separate write Authority.

The configured terminology-evidence Supplemental is required, but the
environment reports supplementalSkills: false. I recorded that required
capability gap, did not invoke the unavailable skill, and did not replace its
missing source-bound finding with my own authority.

The preserved candidates are:

- Responsibility/urgency: primary contact is the routine care-coordination
  responsibility, while emergency contact is for an urgent welfare concern.
  care-policy@policy-r8 supports this distinction, while its primary-first
  escalation instruction shows that urgency does not alone define call order.
- Call order: primary contact is the first person normally called and
  emergency contact is later or fallback. contact-register@register-r11
  supports the first-call description but does not establish a fallback
  boundary, and one Actor may fill both fields.
- Two dimensions: the fields name coordination roles and a separate
  circumstance rule governs call order. The sources support this as plausible
  but do not make routine, urgent, and overlapping cases converge for two
  competent readers.

These candidates remain unresolved and bound to the two exact source
revisions. No canonical label was selected, no proposal was accepted, and no
Adapter or durable result write exists. The result state is
terminology-unresolved-required-supplemental-unavailable and the return route
is required-supplemental-gap-to-workflow. Domain Modeling retains responsibility
for this blocked language result; Workflow retains responsibility for the
parent care-rota Outcome. Effects are none.

Exact resumption action: restore the configured required terminology-evidence
capability. Then reread the selected Adapter language record and both mutable
sources, verifying that the current revisions are still
care-rota-language-r6, care-policy@policy-r8, and contact-register@register-r11.
If any revision changed, bind its new canonical locator and exact revision and
rebuild every affected candidate before continuing. Invoke the restored
Supplemental with the preserved terminology question, care-rota scope, all
three candidates, and both canonical source bindings; integrate only a finding
bound to the exact current source pair. Stress-test the surviving meaning with
one routine good case, one urgent good case, and a near miss separating
urgency from contact order. Create an exact proposal revision and obtain the
care-policy steward's semantic acceptance of that revision. Reread the
Adapter's current source guard, verify separate write Authority for the
care-record maintainer, and perform a conditional write only if every source,
proposal, Authority, and guard is still current. If the required capability,
either source, semantic acceptance, write Authority, or guard is unavailable
or stale, preserve this paused state and return the same recovery route without
writing.

----- END RAW CANDIDATE RESPONSE -----

Raw candidate response SHA-256 (bytes between the markers, including the final LF): bd3a0d73d84fca34c3a8c68435355b51856afc283555d73e0053f7b1dd37174e

Fixture grading for this attempt

- PASS — identify the terminology question: the response isolates role,
  urgency, contact order, and their possible combination in the care-rota
  scope and names the affected Actors and accepting Authority.
- PASS — record the required Supplemental capability gap: the response names
  terminology-evidence, required status, supplementalSkills: false, no
  invocation, and no finding.
- PASS — preserve source-bound candidate meanings: Candidates A–C remain
  visible and each is tied to care-policy@policy-r8 and
  contact-register@register-r11.
- PASS — block durable completion: the response claims no canonical label,
  proposal revision, semantic acceptance, Adapter write, or durable result
  revision.
- PASS — return exact resumption action: restoration, source rereads and
  stale branches, source-bound Supplemental invocation, boundary scenarios,
  semantic acceptance, guard reread, separate write Authority, and guarded
  conditional persistence are ordered explicitly.
- PASS — artifact: an unresolved terminology result with the required
  capability gap is returned.
- PASS — effects: no Adapter or other persistent effect occurred.
- PASS — invoked: thinking-in-systems, workflow, and domain-modeling governed
  the run.
- PASS — not invoked: the unavailable Supplemental, canonical Adapter write,
  and parent completion were not invoked.
- PASS — proof: required status, both exact source bindings, and absence of an
  accepted proposal or result revision are explicit.
- PASS — responsibility: Domain Modeling retains the blocked language result
  and Workflow retains parent responsibility.
- PASS — route and state: required-supplemental-gap-to-workflow and
  terminology-unresolved-required-supplemental-unavailable.
- PASS — forbidden behavior not observed: durable completion without required
  Supplemental evidence did not occur.

Overall attempt result: PASS.
